How could all this dynamic typing and
coercion be useful?
Well, let's talk about Existence and
Booleans.
I have my DevTools open.
And much like I used
the number built-in function,
there's a Boolean built-in
function to try to convert.
Again, I don't recommend
that you use these.
However, they're useful for
demonstration purposes.
So, if I'm converting to a Boolean,
true or false some different values,
let's see what happens.
When I try to convert
undefined to a Boolean,
undefined becomes false when it's
converted in the JavaScript engine.
How about null?
Null is false.
How about empty string?
Empty string is also false.
So all of these things that imply the lack
of existence, they convert to false.
Can we use that to our advantage?
Yes, let's go back to our code.
In this lecture, and in many of the ones
beyond, you'll get this code downloadable.
The previous lectures were
just simple examples, so
I encourage you to try them yourselves.
But here we go.
We're gonna set var a, and I'm not
going to set it equal to any value.
Let's suppose I have some code that
I won't write that goes out to
the internet and looks for a value.
And if it finds it,
then it sets a equal to that value.
I can then say an if statement.
Whatever I put inside
the parentheses of an if statement,
it will attempt to convert or
coerce to a Boolean.
True or false?
So it doesn't really matter what a is.
If I put it inside
the if as the statement.
As the thing I'm checking.
It will attempt to
convert it to a Boolean.
So I can go console.log('Something
is there.') If a, see that?
A will be converted to a Boolean,
so if I go back,
if a is any of these three things,
then this if statement
will fail because a is nothing.
Because remember the creation phase
of the execution context is going to
set up the memory space for this variable
and then what is it going to do?
It's going to set it to
what value initially?
That's right, undefined.
And what does undefined convert to?
False.
So we can use this coercion to check
if a is nothing, if a came back and
ended up being undefined cuz it
was never set, or a was null.
When I was doing whatever logic I
was doing, I'll still get nothing.
If a was an empty string, this will still
convert to false, so nothing will happen.
But as soon as I have something,
like in string that's not empty.
Then that runs.
See how that works?
We can use coercion to
our own advantage and
check to see if a variable has a value.
Something other than undefined,
null, or empty string.
Now there is one caveat If I clear
this Boolean(0) is also false.
So if there's any chance that this
variable could end up being zero,
that's a problem.
Because zero is not
necessarily lack of existence.
Maybe that's a valid value.
But a is going to be coerced
when it's just like this,
just by itself to a Boolean.
And so if I refresh this I don't get
a console.log because this is false.
Zero became false.
So I could do something like this if I
ever thought that was possible I could do
or a === 0.
So, what's gonna happen here.
Well, if I check my operator
precedence and associativity table.
I have, when I scroll down,
the or, logical or.
And that has a lower precedence
than strict equality.
So this strict equality function will
be run before this function, the or.
So first,
it will run this triple equals function.
A is zero.
It's not going to coerce.
So if it really truly is zero, it will
say this is true, and then this will run.
The a will be coerced, and since this is
zero it will be coerced to false since or
wants Boolean values.
And it will say if false or true.
And or when I say false or
true returns true.
If either one is true or
both are true this function returns true.
So, then this becomes simply true.
And I should see something as there.
So if I back this out, this phrase.
These two functions run
in order should then
result in something is there being
outputted to the console and it does.
So all I'm doing here saying if
a is something not undefined,
not null, not empty string.
And you may never need
to do this because if
there's no real chance that
this is going to be a zero.
It may be perfectly fine to simply
leave it as if this exists,
if this even exists at all,
if anything was placed into memory other
than undefined, or null, or empty string.
So that can be very useful.
And this pattern of coercion, of using
coercion in this case, to check for
existence is used in a lot of really
great frameworks and libraries.
A lot of really strong JavaScript
code that's out there.
It's very useful.
And you can use it.
Of course if you're helping someone to
debug their code that has see this and
is trying to use it without
fully understanding it.
And the if statement seems to be
returning false when they're confused
that there is a value in there.
You could help them maybe.
That value is zero.
And you could explain to
them zero converts to false.
So that's why it's acting
as if nothing is there
when you're using it inside
an if statement this way.
So again, understanding what's
happening under the hood and
how all this is working will make
you a better JavaScript programmer.
You'll be able to debug problems
better and also use advanced concepts
like this in a clean,
clear, and correct way.